#This file was created by <burghart> Thu Mar  9 23:11:54 2000
#LyX 1.0 (C) 1995-1999 Matthias Ettrich and the LyX Team
\lyxformat 2.15
\textclass book
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\float_placement htbp
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle headings

\layout Title

Bistatic Radar Hub System
\layout Author

Chris Burghart 
\newline 
Binet, Inc.
\layout Date

3 December 1999
\layout Standard

Copyright 1999 Binet, Inc.
\layout Standard

All rights reserved
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Chapter


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{chap:overview}

\end_inset 

System Overview
\layout Section

System Block Diagram
\layout Standard
\noindent 
This document describes the structure and use of the bistatic radar system's
 hub computer.
 The complete bistatic radar system is comprised of a normal radar transmitter/r
eceiver system (the radar), one or more remote bistatic receivers, and a
 hub computer for combining and displaying the information from all of the
 receivers.
 Figure 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{fig: blockdiag}

\end_inset 

 shows a block diagram of the system architecture.
\begin_float fig 
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 148 79
file BlockDiagram.eps
width 4 50
flags 9

\end_inset 


\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{fig: blockdiag}

\end_inset 

block diagram of a bistatic radar system
\end_float 
 Note that the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

per bistatic receiver
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 block consisting of the bistatic receiver/processor and the communications
 hardware for that receiver may be replicated one or more times depending
 on how many bistatic receivers are in the system.
 Also note that although the connection between the local radar network
 and the bistatic receivers is shown as implemented using ISDN, any TCP/IP
 connection between the two can be used.
 For example, this could be a direct network connection or a PPP connection
 via radio frequency modems.
 The type of connection can also be different for each bistatic receiver.
 Hence, the hardware communication architecture connecting the machines
 of the bistatic radar system is very flexible.
\layout Section

Data Paths
\layout Standard

The data paths among the machines in the system are as follows:
\layout Quote

radar 
\size scriptsize 

\begin_inset Formula \( _{\overrightarrow{phases}} \)
\end_inset 

 
\size default 
bistatic hub 
\size scriptsize 

\begin_inset Formula \( _{\overrightarrow{phases}} \)
\end_inset 

 
\size default 
bistatic receiver(s)
\layout Quote

radar 
\size scriptsize 

\begin_inset Formula \( _{\overrightarrow{data}} \)
\end_inset 

 
\size default 
bistatic hub
\layout Quote

bistatic receiver(s) 
\size scriptsize 

\begin_inset Formula \( _{\overrightarrow{data}} \)
\end_inset 

 
\size default 
bistatic hub
\layout Quote

bistatic hub 
\size scriptsize 

\begin_inset Formula \( _{\overrightarrow{commands}} \)
\end_inset 

 
\size default 
radar and bistatic receiver(s)
\layout Standard

and all of the data are transmitted as UDP datagram packets over a TCP/IP
 network.
 The first data path shown, transmitting pulse phases from the radar to
 the bistatic hub and then to the receivers, is done as a two step process
 so that the radar need not have specific information about the number of
 receivers or their addresses.
 The second and third data paths shown simply move data from all of the
 receivers, including the radar, to the bistatic hub computer for merging
 and processing.
 Finally, there is a data path allowing the bistatic hub to send commands
 to the radar and to the bistatic receivers.
\layout Chapter

The Hub Computer
\layout Section

Overview
\layout Standard

The 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

hub
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 computer in the bistatic radar system merges data from each of the system's
 receivers, forwards phase information, performs dual-Doppler wind calculations,
 writes the calculated data, and provides graphical display.
 In addition, means are provided for sending some basic commands to any
 or all of the receivers.
 Software on the hub can also be used to look at archived data during or
 after normal operations.
 Typically the hub machine is located with the radar, but it can be placed
 anywhere there is sufficient reliable network bandwidth to carry the incoming
 data.
 The functions of the bistatic hub machine are implemented by two programs:
 BistaticHub and xbistat.
 BistaticHub does most of the work, accepting the incoming data, performing
 wind calculation, and writing the resulting data stream.
 The xbistat program displays the bistatic radar data, either in real time
 with BistaticHub as the data source, or in a post-processing mode using
 an existing data file as its source.
 Each of these two programs is described in more detail below.
\layout Section

The BistaticHub Program
\layout Standard

The BistaticHub program provides the bistatic radar system's means for calculati
ng dual-Doppler winds from the multiple radar receivers.
 At its front end, it accepts data rays sent from the receivers and puts
 them into a buffer of incoming data.
 For each arriving ray of data, the buffer is checked to see if previously
 received rays are available from all other enabled receivers and with matching
 times.
 If not, the program simply adds the new data to the buffer and waits for
 more data.
 When a time-matched set of rays is found for all receivers, though, wind
 processing is performed.
 For each radar/bistatic receiver pair, a gate-by-gate dual-Doppler calculation
 is done and 
\begin_inset Formula \( u \)
\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset Formula \( v \)
\end_inset 

 wind components for the pair are added to a new output ray.
 In addition, a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

best
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 wind is calculated using a weighted average of all the other computed 
\begin_inset Formula \( u \)
\end_inset 

 and 
\begin_inset Formula \( v \)
\end_inset 

 components.
 The output ray is written to a storage device and also written to a socket
 for display by the xbistat program.
 After generating a new ray, BistaticHub again waits for new data from any
 of the receivers.
\layout Subsection

Running BistaticHub
\layout Standard

The BistaticHub program is actually comprised of two pieces: the main program
 and its graphical user interface.
 The program is run simply by starting up the graphical interface, which
 automatically starts the main program:
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
BistaticHub.py [options] &
\layout Subsection

BistaticHub command line options
\layout Standard

The command line options for BistaticHub are as follows:
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
--base_data_dir
\family default 
 
\family typewriter 
<dir>
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
--rcvr_info <receiver_information_file>
\family default 
 
\layout Standard
\noindent 
The 
\family typewriter 
--base_data_dir
\family default 
 option will override the default base data directory, beneath which BistaticHub
 writes its data files.
 The default directory is 
\family typewriter 
/data
\family default 
.
 The 
\family typewriter 
--rcvr_info
\family default 
 option will make BistaticHub read a receiver information file different
 from its default of 
\family typewriter 
RcvrInfo
\family default 
.
\layout Subsection

Receiver information file
\layout Standard

The receiver information file is a required text file which gives some necessary
 facts about each of the receivers in the bistatic radar system.
 The file has one line per receiver with exactly five elements per line,
 each separated by white space: 
\layout Enumerate

site name for this receiver
\layout Enumerate

receiver data format (currently either VIRAQ or PIRAQ)
\layout Enumerate

azimuth from the transmitting radar to this receiver in degrees clockwise
 from north
\layout Enumerate

range from the transmitting radar to this receiver in kilometers
\layout Enumerate

IP address for the receiver's processing computer, in standard dotted-quad
 notation.
\layout Standard

Comment lines, marked by a pound sign (
\family typewriter 
#
\family default 
) in the first character, may be added anywhere within the receiver information
 file.
 The first non-comment information
\emph on 
 
\emph toggle 
line in the file 
\emph on 
must
\emph toggle 
 be for the transmitting radar.
 Figure 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{fig: rcvrinfofile}

\end_inset 

 shows an example receiver information file for a system with just one bistatic
 receiving site.
\begin_float fig 
\layout Verse


\family typewriter 
# 
\newline 
# Site Name
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 Format
\protected_separator 
 Azimuth Range
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 IP Address 
\newline 
#======================================================= 
\newline 
Radar
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 VIRAQ
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 0.0
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 0.0
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 192.168.0.2 
\newline 
Lichtenau
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 PIRAQ
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 212.0
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 27.2
\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 

\protected_separator 
 192.168.1.1
\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{fig: rcvrinfofile}

\end_inset 

example BistaticHub receiver information file
\end_float 
\layout Subsection

The BistaticHub window
\layout Standard

Once BistaticHub has successfully read its receiver information file, it
 displays a single window with a receiver status and information section
 at the top, a text area for displaying log messages, and some control buttons
 at the bottom of the window.
 Figure 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{fig: BistaticHub}

\end_inset 

 shows the BistaticHub interface window.
\begin_float fig 
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 297 170
file BistaticHub.eps
width 4 100
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{fig: BistaticHub}

\end_inset 

the BistaticHub window
\end_float 
 
\layout Standard

The top of the window is divided into sections by receiver.
 For each receiver, the receiver site name is shown, in black if the receiver
 is enabled or in gray if the receiver is currently disabled.
 The name is followed by a button which toggles the enabled
\emph on 
/
\emph toggle 
disabled state of the receiver.
 An enabled receiver is expected to be sending data to the hub computer;
 BistaticHub will not generate a ray of data with dual-Doppler winds until
 it has rays of data for a given time from 
\emph on 
all
\emph toggle 
 enabled receivers.
 Hence, a receiver which is not currently sending data must be disabled
 for BistaticHub to generate rays.
 Note that the transmitting radar is 
\emph on 
always
\emph toggle 
 in the enabled state and that clicking the enabled/disabled button for
 the radar has no effect.
 Following the enable/disable button is status information for the receiver
 showing times from incoming data on the upper line and the first eight
 gates of reflectivity and velocity data below.
 If data are not incoming from an enabled receiver, the status line will
 indicate in red how long it has been since data have been received.
\layout Standard

The middle of the window is a text area which logs various informational
 messages.
 Unexpected events will be reported here, as will debugging messages when
 debugging is enabled.
 If an abnormal exit occurs, the contents of the log area will be written
 to a file named 
\family typewriter 
BistaticHub.log
\family default 
.
\layout Standard

The bottom of the window has control buttons: Hub Recording, Debug Level,
 Send Command, and Shut Down.
 The Hub Recording button shows whether data are currently being recorded
 on the hub, and will toggle recording on or off if pushed.
 The Debug Level button shows the current debugging level, and when pushed
 will pop up a window allowing the user to set the debug level.
 Debug level 0 prints the minimum amount of information, with information
 increasing through levels 1, 2, and 3.
 See Section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: statusinfo}

\end_inset 

 below for a description of debug levels and status information.
 The Send Command button pops up a window allowing text commands to be sent
 to any or all of the receivers; see receiver documentation for allowed
 commands.
 Finally, the Shut Down button will shut down BistaticHub.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec: statusinfo}

\end_inset 

Status information
\layout Standard

The status information portion of the BistaticHub window displays useful
 information, with more information being shown as the debug level is increased.
 At debug level zero, only critical messages will be displayed; this should
 be sufficient information under most operating conditions.
 All other debug levels will show the same information as level zero, but
 extra information is added.
 At debug level one, a number representing the source receiver will be printed
 for each complete ray coming in to BistaticHub.
 The receivers are numbered in the order they appear in the receiver information
 file, starting with zero for the transmitting radar.
 This allows basic confirmation of data flow into the program.
 Debug level two is similar to the previous level, but it will also print
 a lower-case letter identifying the receiver for each packet which comes
 into BistaticHub.
 The letters assigned to each receiver are again in the order of the receiver
 information file, with the radar being 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 


\family typewriter 
a
\family default 
.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 Finally, at debug level three, very complete information is printed about
 the data coming into BistaticHub.
 A line of text is printed for each incoming ray, identifying its source
 and either labelling it as bad, or printing a number of pieces of information
 from the ray such as pulsewidth and number of gates.
 It is recommended that debug levels greater than zero be used only when
 debugging specific problems, since a great deal of I/O is generated by
 the higher debug levels.
\layout Section

The xbistat Program
\layout Standard

The xbistat program provides graphical display of the data generated by
 the BistaticHub program.
 It is generally run in real-time whenever BistaticHub is running.
 It can also be run separate from BistaticHub to display data files generated
 by BistaticHub.
 The program is usually run in the background via one of the commands:
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
xbistat [options] &
\hfill 

\family default 
(for real-time)
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
xbistat [options] <data_file> &
\family default 

\hfill 
(for looking at existing files)
\layout Standard

In the second mode, 
\family typewriter 
<data_file>
\family default 
 is simply the name of the BistaticHub data file to be viewed.
 For other command line options, see Section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: xbistatoptions}

\end_inset 

 below.
 When it is run, xbistat pops up a single window as shown in Figure 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{fig: xbistat}

\end_inset 

.
\begin_float fig 
\layout Standard
\align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 297 222
file xbistat.eps
width 4 100
flags 10

\end_inset 


\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{fig: xbistat}

\end_inset 

the xbistat window
\end_float 
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec: xbistatoptions}

\end_inset 

xbistat command line options
\layout Standard

There are a few command line options for controlling the initial display
 state of xbistat:
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
-x
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
--xcenter <xval>
\hfill 

\family default 
x center w.r.t.
 the radar, in km (default 0)
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
-y
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
--ycenter <yval>
\hfill 

\family default 
y center w.r.t.
 the radar, in km (default 0)
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
-p
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
--pixels_per_km <pval>
\hfill 

\family default 
magnification, in pixels/km (default 2.5)
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
-i
\family default 
, 
\family typewriter 
--init_file <file>
\hfill 

\family default 
initialization file (none by default)
\layout Standard

Section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec: xbistatinit}

\end_inset 

 below describes the format of the optional initialization file.
\layout Subsection


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{sec: xbistatinit}

\end_inset 

Optional initialization file
\layout Standard

Using the 
\family typewriter 
--init_file
\family default 
 command line option, xbistat can be given a text file to read for setting
 initial conditions.
 This initialization file can contain the following commands, which parallel
 the command line options described above:
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
xcenter <xval>
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
ycenter <yval>
\layout Quote


\family typewriter 
\size small 
pixels_per_km <pval>
\layout Standard

The commands must be one per line and must begin at the first character
 of the line.
\layout Subsection

Controlling xbistat
\layout Standard

When xbistat starts up, it will be displaying a raster data field overlaid
 with wind vectors.
 The display is centered on the radar and will show a fairly wide area of
 view.
 Means are provided, via mouse button clicks and single key commands, for
 changing the fields and area displayed as xbistat runs.
 Table 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{tab: xbistatcmds}

\end_inset 

 shows the available xbistat commands.
 Letter case is important here; some letters are used in both upper and
 lower case for different commands.
\begin_float tab 
\layout Standard
\align center \LyXTable
multicol5
16 2 0 0 -1 -1 -1 -1
1 0 0 0
1 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0
0 1 0 0
8 1 0 "" ""
2 1 1 "" ""
0 8 1 0 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 2 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""
0 8 0 1 0 0 0 "" ""

key
\newline 
Action
\newline 
(left mouse button)
\newline 
move center of display to the point under the cursor
\newline 
(space)
\newline 
stop or resume display update
\newline 
(up arrow)
\newline 
change to the next available raster field
\newline 
(down arrow)
\newline 
change to the previous available raster field
\newline 
(right arrow)
\newline 
change to the next available wind field
\newline 
(left arrow)
\newline 
change to the previous available wind field
\newline 
c
\newline 
clear the raster portion of the display
\newline 
C
\newline 
clear the vector portion of the display
\newline 
q
\newline 
quit the xbistat program
\newline 
r
\newline 
toggle display of the raster field
\newline 
u
\newline 
decrease magnification (unzoom) by a factor of 1.2
\newline 
U
\newline 
decrease magnification (unzoom) by a factor of 2.0
\newline 
w
\newline 
toggle display of the vectors (winds)
\newline 
z
\newline 
increase magnification (zoom) by a factor of 1.2
\newline 
Z
\newline 
increase magnification (zoom) by a factor of 2.0
\layout Caption


\begin_inset LatexCommand \label{tab: xbistatcmds}

\end_inset 

xbistat commands
\end_float 
 
\the_end
